Hi, my name is Brian Caffo and
welcome to the lecture on
some common distributions in
the Statistical Inference Coursera class,
as part of our data
science specialization.
The specialization is co-taught with
my co-instructors Jeff Leek and
Roger Peng,
we're all at Johns Hopkins University in
the Department of Biostatistics in
the Bloomberg School of Public Health.
Let's start with perhaps the simplest
distribution, the Bernoulli distribution.
The Bernoulli distribution is named after
Jacob Bernoulli, a famous mathematician,
who actually comes from a family of famous
mathematicians, and if you're interested,
you can read up on the Bernoulli's, they
have lots of Wikipedia pages, for example.
So, the Bernoulli di, distribution arises
out of a coin flip, say, with a zero for
a tail and a one for a head, and
you have a potentially biased coin with
probabilities, p for a head and
1 minus p for a tail We usually write
the Bernoulli probability mass function as
p to the x, 1 minus p, to the 1 minus x.
The mean of a Bernoulli random variable is
p, and the variance is p times 1 minus p,
we've seen these facts before.
And if we,
let x be a Bernoulli random variable,
we typically call x equal 1 as a success,
eve, regardless of whether or not
the outcome is successful in some sense of
the word, and x equal to 0 as a failure.
Now that we've discussed
the Bernoulli distribution,
let's talk about
the binomial distribution.
The bino, a binomial random variable
is obtained as the sum of a bunch of
iid Bernoulli random variables.
So ostensibly, a binomial random variable,
is the total number of heads,
on the flips of a potentially biased coin.
Mathematically, let's let x 1
to x n be Bernoulli p, then x,
the sum of them,
is a binomial random variable.
The binomial mass function looks a lot
like the Bernoulli mass function,
though with n choose x out front.
.
Recall that the notation n choose
x stands for n factorial over x
factorial n minus x factorial, and
n choose 0 and n choose n are both 1.
This solves a particular
common notarial problem of
counting the number of the ways
of selecting x items out of n
without replacement disregarding
the ordering of the items.
Let's go through a quick example
of a binomial calculation.
Suppose you have a friend who has eight
children, seven of which are girls and
none are twins.
If each gender has an independent
50% probability for each birth,
what's the probability of getting seven or
more girls out of eight births?
Well let's plug right into
the binomial formula.
That's the probability of seven,
which is 8 choose 7, .5 to the 7,
1 minus .5 to the 1 plus 8 choose 8,
.5 to the 8,
1 minus .5 to the 0 which works
out to be a val, a 4% chance.
Here, I give you the r code for
performing this calculation.
Also, as with, most of the common
distributions there's an r function and
pbinom gives you these probabilities.